Story Recapped here. Today, I'm going to
explain a Horror film called "Devil's Gate."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Somewhere in North Dakota, Pearce Bacca is driving
along a desolate road when his car suddenly breaks
down. He tries to call for help using his
cellphone, but the device wouldn't turn on.
Having no other options, Pearce approaches
an old farm nearby and steps through the gate
despite the "No Trespassing" sign. He knocks on
the door and asks for help, but no one answers,
so he looks around for any signs of the owner.
Soon, he hears a man yelling at someone in the
basement, so he looks through the window.
He staggers back when he sees the man,
causing him to step into a trap hidden beneath the
ground. He manages to break free from the trap,
but as he walks away, he gets caught in
another device that kills him almost instantly.
Days later, F.B.I. agent Daria Francis arrives
in a town called Devil's Gate to investigate
the disappearance of a woman and her son. Deputy
Conrad' Colt' Salter fetches her from the airport
and takes her to the police station to meet
Sheriff Gruenwell. |At the farm, Jackson Pritchard
discovers Pearce's dead body in the booby trap,
so he wraps it in a white sheet and buries it.
The sheriff soon arrives at the station and
introduces himself to agent Francis. As soon as
they enter the sheriff's office, Gruenwell gives
Francis the files for the case of Maria Pritchard
and her son, Jonah. Francis says she
wants to talk to Maria's husband, Jackson,
but Gruenwell says he and Colt already went to the
farm three days ago and found nothing suspicious.
Francis finds it odd that Jackson didn't report
that his wife and son were missing. Gruenwell
explains that Maria and Jonah were on their way to
visit Maria's sister, Theresa. So Theresa was the
first one to notice that her sister and nephew
were missing. Gruenwell notes that Jackson has
a temper, but he assures Francis that he's
not the type to kill his wife and son. The
F.B.I. agent argues that domestic partners tend
to be the perpetrators in almost half the cases
of murdered women. Gruenwell believes that it's
more likely that Maria got tired of Jackson and
ran off with her son, but Francis thinks that it's
suspicious that Maria didn't inform her sister.
Gruenwell gets irritated by Francis' lack of
confidence in the local police department's
ability to investigate the case properly.
So he points out that Francis herself
had failures of her own when she was
assigned to find a girl named Breeland.
Francis defends herself, saying she found
the girl despite how the case turned out.
The sheriff asks Colt to take Francis to Theresa's
house so she can ask her questions directly.
On the way, Colt asks Francis what
happened to the Breeland case.
Francis tells him that she was assigned to find
17-year-old Tanya Breeland about a year ago.
After months of searching, Francis
found her at a homeless shelter run
by an Islamist group in St. Paul, but
Breeland didn't want to go home. Psych
Evaluation indicated that she is normal and
there were no traces of drugs in her system.
Despite Breeland's objections, Francis still
took her home. A few days later, Breeland went to
Francis' office and took her own life by stabbing
herself in the neck with a shard of glass. Francis
regrets that she was more focused on solving
the case than making sure that Breeland is safe.
When they reach Theresa's house, Francis asks
Theresa if Maria and Jonah visit her regularly.
She says that their visits are not regular,
but they stop by when they felt like they
needed to get away from the farm. Theresa
notes that Maria is often stressed because
the farm has not been earning money for a
while, and the house has been falling apart.
When Francis asks Theresa whether Jackson could be
one of the reasons that Maria is stressed, Therese
notes that Jackson has been in the county lock up
more than once. Colt points out that he was there
for public intoxication and simple assault.
Theresa explains that Jackson has become very
short-tempered in the last few years. One night,
Jackson locked up Jonah in his room overnight for
spilling some paint on the porch. Jackson wouldn't
let the boy eat or even go to the bathroom. Maria
was furious because she considers Jonah a miracle
after experiencing multiple miscarriages. Jackson,
a deeply religious man, believes that Jonah
was a reward from God for their faithfulness.
Theresa reveals Jonah liked to stay at her house
because there's a playground nearby. She also
made a little room for the boy in the closet
because it made him feel safer to sleep there.
When Francis takes a look at the room, she finds
Jonah's sketchbook full of his scribblings. While
she's looking through the drawings, Theresa's
mother barges in, saying Jackson is a monster.
She warns Francis that the souls of Jonah and
Maria would never rest if they die on the farm.
When they go back to the car, Francis tells Colt
that they have to go to the farm and interrogate
Jackson. Colt suggests looking for Maria's car
instead, but Francis says Jackson might already
be doing terrible things to his wife and son. Colt
surmises that Jackson wouldn't hurt Jonah because
the boy is still his son. Francis reminds him
about what Theresa said about Jackson's temper and
shows Colt Jonah's drawing of a woman and child
in tears while a man stares at them menacingly.
Colt agrees to visit Jackson and tells Francis
that they have to contact the station to inform
them that they're going to the farm. Francis,
however, tells him that the sheriff will only
prevent them from going there, so they go
on their way without notifying the station.
When they arrive at the farm, Francis notices
Pearce's car and wonders why anyone would
leave their vehicle on the side of the road
without taking the keys and locking the doors.
Inside the house, Jackson
suddenly hears his dog, Earl,
barking, suggesting that someone has
arrived. Outside, Francis notices
that all the windows are boarded up, and the
picket fences are covered with barbed wire.
Colt tells the agent that the place didn't look
that creepy when they visited three days ago.
After checking their C.B. radio, Colt
and Francis split up to look for Jackson.
Francis goes inside the barn and finds
Maria's car inside. Jackson soon arrives
and points a shotgun at Francis, saying
she made a mistake coming to the farm.
He takes Francis outside and tells her and
Colt to leave his property immediately.
Colt tries to calm him down and warns him
that Gruenwell will be sending more cops to
the premises if he shoots them. While Colt tries
to pacify Jackson, Francis swiftly turns around
and hits Jackson in the face as she grabs his
gun. Colt cuffs Jackson while Francis asks him
about the disappearance of his family. Jackson
assures her that they are not on the farm. They
suddenly hear a noise coming from the house,
so Francis decides to go in and investigate.
Jackson warns her not to go inside, saying
he will not be responsible for what happens.
When she reaches the porch, she notices
a tripwire connected to a crossbow,
so she steps over it. While looking around the
house, she sees Jackson's cache of weapons on
a table near the door to the basement. She
hears Earl repeatedly barking downstairs,
so she goes down to the basement
to see what's bothering the dog.
As Francis walks down the stairs, the
dog just keeps barking and ignores her.
A loud boom suddenly reverberates across the
sky, causing the power at the farm to go out.
Jackson, agitated by the noise, tells Colt to
call Francis and ask her to get out of the house.
After lighting a lamp, Francis soon comes across
a cage and sees a lump of jelly-like substance
inside the cell. When she uses a wooden staff
to pierce it open, tentacles suddenly emerge,
trying to grab the wood. On the next cell, she
sees an otherworldly creature facing the wall.
As she looks at it in shock, the
creature turns towards her and growls.
Francis gets out of the house and asks Jackson
to explain what she found in the basement. She
suspects that Jackson has been experimenting with
the livestock, but he tells her that it's a demon.
Jackson explains that another creature like the
one in the basement had taken his wife and son.
Now, he wants to use the creature in his
house as leverage to get his family back.
When Francis asks about the
jelly-like material in the cage,
Jackson says that the creature was
wearing it like a suit to cover its body.
Jackson refuses to say anything when Francis
asked him how he managed to capture the creature.
As Colt puts Jackson inside the car, they
notice that their phones have stopped working.
As the sky begins to darken, they soon find out
that none of the vehicles at the farm are working.
Soon, clouds start to form a circle in the
sky as multiple lightning bolts hit the farm.
When lightning strikes the vehicle, Francis
tells Colt to run to the front door of the house.
On his way to the door, Colt trips the wire on
the porch and gets hit in the leg by an arrow.
When they get inside, Francis says
she'll take a walk to find help,
but Jackson tells her that the
nearest farm is 13 miles away.
Jackson warns her that the creatures
won't probably let them leave anyway.
Colt says that the sheriff will come looking for
them, but Francis notes that they didn't tell the
station where they were going. Francis tells
Colt that she thought she saw something where
the lightning hit the ground. Jackson suddenly
hears Earl barking and looks out the window.
He tells Francis that Maria is out there on
the exact spot where the lightning bolt struck.
Francis takes Jackson outside to
see if Maria is really out there.
They soon see Maria lying down on the ground,
so they run toward her and check her vitals.
Jackson asks Francis to take off the cuffs
so he can carry Maria back to the house.
Inside, Maria wakes up and asks for Jonah, but
Jackson tells her that the boy is not with them.
Maria gets agitated, saying
she failed to help her son.
She tells Jackson that it was his
fault that Jonah went missing.
Francis asks Maria if she remembers
anything when Jonah was taken.
Maria tells them that Jackson gave the boy to
the creatures. Maria explains that Jackson's
father believes that the creatures are
angels sent to watch over their house.
Jackson decides to tell Francis what happened
before Maria and Jonah went missing. Maria and
Jonah were supposed to go to Theresa's house,
but the boy suddenly fell ill. Jackson refused
to take him to the doctor and prays for healing
instead. Despite his wife's plea to take the boy
to a hospital, he brings Jonah to the field and
continues praying there. As they pray, lightning
strikes Jonah and lifts him to the sky. Jackson
soon finds out that his wife has also disappeared,
so he ferociously attacks one of the creatures
in the field and takes it inside their house.
Jackson reveals that it wasn't the first
time that he'd encountered the creatures.
After his father took his own life, he saw a
beam of light in the field and went inside it.
He suddenly found himself elsewhere,
surrounded by the creatures,
but he doesn't remember if
they did anything to him.
When they hear the creature growling in the
cage, Jackson guesses that it's calling out
to the others. Soon, they hear thumping
noise on the floor above them and realize
that the creatures are inside. Jackson
asks Francis to take the cuffs off so
he can turn the generator on and activate
the electrified fences around the house.
While Jackson turns on the generator, Colt
suddenly sees one of the aliens in the woods. But
before he could take a closer look, Jackson grabs
him and tells him to get back inside the house.
Maria and Francis suddenly hear someone
approaching the basement. While Francis
waits for it to open the door, the creature
inside the cage reaches out and grabs her
shoulder. When she turns to look at
it, another alien turns up behind her.
She shoots the creature several times, but the
light suddenly goes out, and the alien disappears.
Jackson surmises that the creatures
probably won't leave them alone,
so he asks Francis to let him retrieve
his shotgun and look for his dog.
As Jackson calls out to Earl, Colt suddenly
feels something dripping down on his head.
When he looks up, he sees the dog lying
lifeless on the roof. Jackson tells Maria
and Francis to go upstairs and throw anything
against the creatures when they approach.
Jackson asks Colt to help him grab the creature
with a dog control pole. When Colt asks him what
he intends to do with the alien, Jackson tells
him that he only wants retribution for taking
his family. He tells Colt that he can either help
him or step aside. After they hook the creature
with the pole, it starts writhing and shrieking
as Jackson grabs its hand and cuts its finger
with a scissor. Jackson quickly runs outside and
digs a hole in the spot where Maria was taken.
After uncovering a disc with strange symbols, he
puts the alien's finger at the center, showing
them what he did to the creature he captured. Not
long, a bolt of lightning hits the severed digit,
causing it to disappear. Francis tells Jackson to
set up the traps and get back into the house. She
worries that the aliens will retaliate because
of what Jackson did to the one in the basement.
Inside the house, Francis deduces that
the disc must be some kind of a gateway.
She points out that the drawings made by
Jonah resemble the patterns on the disc.
Francis believes the aliens are interested
in the boy because he knows what they are.
Francis also notices the symbols
in one of the pictures on the wall.
When Jackson takes a close look at the image,
they see a disc on the back of a pick-up truck.
Colt surmises that Jackson's
father was working with the aliens.
Francis notes that the land doesn't
look like a good place for farming,
so she asks Jackson why they held on to it despite
the lack of profits. Jackson tells them that his
father warned him not to be like Esau, who
sold his birthright because he got hungry.
His father believed that they would someday
reap bountiful harvests from the land because
Jackson's great-great-grandfather
was led to the farm by God.
Francis contends that the key to finding Jonah
is the creature in the cage. They go down to the
basement and see that the jelly-like substance
has turned to ashes. Jackson opens the next cell
and grabs the creature to trade it for his son.
But when the alien touches him, he starts seeing
images of himself being cloned. He learns from the
vision that one of them had died. After Colt pulls
him away from the creature, Jackson realizes that
he was the clone and was left there by the aliens.
Maria confirms to them that Jackson is
no longer the same person she married.
She soon realizes that Jackson also caused
the numerous miscarriages she had in the past.
When they take a look at the fetuses,
they resemble the alien in the cage.
Maria discloses that Jackson refused to
give them a proper burial, saying they
were abominations. Francis surmises that
the aliens are trying to replace humans.
Jackson explains that the creatures wanted to
change and adapt to life on earth until they
are able to breed. He reveals that their world
is dying, and they're running out of time to
find a way to reproduce. Jackson says that
Jonah is important to the creatures because
he's the first natural-born. Colt gets infuriated
at Jackson after hearing about the aliens' plans,
so Francis tells him to go upstairs and secure
the area to make sure the creatures can't get in.
Colt argues that their situation is no different
from the white Europeans in Little Bighorn,
where they were surrounded by Native
Americans who eventually scalped them.
Francis convinces him to hold the line,
noting that no one else will do it. When
Colt gets upstairs, he witnesses one
of the aliens drop down from the sky.
The generator suddenly breaks down,
leaving them without any power.
Francis suggests negotiating with the aliens and
gives them what they want. She tries to convince
Jackson to help them by telling him that there
still must be some part of Jackson left in him.
When she mentions that Jonah still needs
him, Jackson reminds her that the boy is one
of the aliens. Francis argues that they will
never find out unless they retrieve his son.
Upstairs, Colt jams the door with a chair
to prevent the alien from getting inside,
but the creature eventually breaks it and enters
the house. The creature sees Jackson's weapons and
destroys them. Colt emerges from his hiding
place and shoots the alien with a revolver,
but it has no effect, so he decides to charge
at it. The creature lifts Colt telekinetically
and pins him to the wall. As Colt struggles
to break free, the creature tears him apart.
Jackson asks Francis for a tarp to wrap
the creature, but when she turns her back,
Jackson knocks her out. Jackson then wraps
the alien in the tarp and takes it upstairs.
He walks past another creature on his way
out of the house, but it doesn't stop him.
The alien approaches Maria in the basement and
touches her womb. When the creature disappears,
Maria checks on the fetuses and finds that they're
all gone. When Francis wakes up, Maria tells
her that she's scared of what Jackson will do.
Francis promises her that she'll get Jonah back.
Outside the house, the aliens soon release
Jonah after Jackson brings the creature to
the teleportation site. Jackson points a weapon at
Jonah's head, telling him that the bloodline ends
with him. Francis stops him, arguing they can't
be sure that the boy is one of the creatures.
The terrified boy begs Jackson not to hurt him.
Jackson seems intent on killing his own son,
so Francis shoots Jackson before
he could pull the trigger.
Fearing that Francis will take away Jonah, Maria
points a shotgun at the agent and tells her to
drop her firearm. Francis assures Maria that
she has no intention of taking Jonah from her,
but Maria refuses to believe her. The alien soon
leaves the farm and destroys the disc on the
ground with a huge blast of energy. Francis
gets blown away by the powerful explosion.
In the morning, Gruenwell tells Francis that Maria
has confirmed most of the things in her report.
Gruenwell says that a man-made bomb can
explain the crater left by the explosion.
Maria had credited Francis for launching
the assault that set them free from Jackson.
However, Francis insists that she didn't launch
an assault and Jackson didn't hold them hostage.
Gruenwell tells Francis that she may lose
her position at the F.B.I if she mentions
the aliens to others. He reminds her that there is
no evidence to prove that aliens were involved in
the incident the previous night. Francis tells
him to check the basement for D.N.A., but the
sheriff argues that there is not enough manpower
to conduct further investigations on the case.
He tells Francis that her initial
suspicions about Jackson were correct.
Gruenwell advises her to forget about the
aliens because she might end up in the asylum.
A few days after the incident, Mary wakes up
and finds that Jonah is nowhere to be found
in the house. She goes to the barn and finds
him opening the floorboards with a crowbar.
When she asks him what he's doing, the boy
tells her that it's time for the harvest.
When she looks at what's underneath the floor,
she sees numerous teleportation discs lined up.